---
author: Arun Manivannan
date: '2007-02-28 03:10:42'
layout: post
slug: simple-web-20
status: publish
title: Simple Web 2.0
wordpress_id: '110'
? ''
: - web 2.0
---

Web 2.0 is about four different interacting things

1. Community. This is the most obvious one. Community is basically interaction
between members, between websites, and between the website admins and its
members. In the old days, we had the BBS and then IRC and then forums. Now
it's more of the same, but also extended in one crucial way: we are happy to
share without claiming ownership. The best example is Wikipedia: no one claims
copyright control over it, and so we are breaking the traditional authorship
rights. When we contribute to Wikipedia, anyone can read our contribution,
anyone can copy it, anyone can edit, and dang it, anyone can delete it. This
is very new.

The other new thing is voting. Now we have popularity contests of our
contributions. Our forums have reps, delicious has the popular lists, and of
course digg is the ultimate voting system. If you think hard, you can also
convince yourself, Google's PageRank is essentially an algorithm that measures
social popularity (link = vote).

2. Technology. Here we talk about XML, APIs, new content management systems
like blogs and wikis, and if you're that inclined, sure, AJAX. The new
technologies support the formation of communities and the interactions I
explained above. XML gives us RSS and AJAX. APIs are a more general term that
gives us mashups, and arguably, everything else. Basically, it's the use of
standard technologies everyone agrees on. This, IMHO, is the biggest
"technological" breakthrough: actually agreeing on a technical standard!!!

3. Architecture. This is best described by the [Cluetrain Manifesto][1] as:

Quote:


The Web has become the new corporate infrastructure, in the form of intranets,
turning massive corporate hierarchical systems into collections of many small
pieces loosely joining themselves unpredictably.

Essentially, we're talking about a more modular way to build applications. The
(re)rise of Ruby on Rails and MVC model, along with other frameworks like
CakePHP, is testament to this aspect of Web 2.0

4. Look. Every movement has a look: the 60s, the 80s, and now Web 2.0. Long
gone are square boxes with plain boring color. No man, bring on the colors.
Give me some jive. Don't be square. Lively and fresh is what we are. Why be
something else? And yes, white space is great.

So this is Web 2.0 in a nutshell. Web 2.5 is in beta now and will be released
shortly.

from the author of [ekstreme.com][2]

   [1]: http://www.cluetrain.com/book/longing.html

   [2]: http://ekstreme.com/thingsofsorts/

