---
author: Arun Manivannan
date: '2009-10-27 08:25:41'
layout: post
slug: the-dominoes-and-the-birth-of-fetch2me
status: publish
title: The Dominoes and the birth of Fetch2Me
wordpress_id: '356'
? ''
: - fetch2me
  - personal
  - python
  - Uncategorized
---

Over the past few weeks a lot of things are happening in my life and i feel
really guilty of not jotting them down in here. Its amazing how naturally
things evolve and looking back you think everything happened so fast.

I was talking to my wife a couple of days back on how all things in my life
fell in place naturally, like the neatly arranged dominos, and how much God is
great that we can never have the faintest idea of what he thinks and what he
has in store for us.

Myself and Rajesh always had the inner fire to do something big and our focus
has always been a new "idea" - something which dazzles. And we were pretty
sure that no idea falls from the roof. We have to be into a lot of ideas to
have a new perspective to see ours. We always felt that it is always not about
the money. And, I, for one reason felt that contributing to open source is
"the idea" to have something meaningful in your life.

This blog is not about how things went on well and how we achieved the "idea"
but how bad things could go and we still have our "dream of the youth" alive
and active.

I left for Singapore and a couple of months later Rajesh got laid off from
Merrill. Recession hit badly all over and the only thing i could think of is
to pray that i retain my job. Simply because i dont want to depend on my
parents when my kid is born. Rajesh got his engagement cancelled and was at
home for 9 months. If i were him, with my family, i am not sure how my
reaction would be. It could either be a "face what may come" or "hibernate for
winter".Â  Looking back at myself and my reaction to various "things" that
happened in my life, I am sure i would have given the situation a cold
shoulder. But then there is this new addition to the situation called family.
Nevertheless, Rajesh's situation really scared me a lot. He was unable to find
a job despite being one hell of a developer. The calls are simply not coming
his way, leave alone interviews.

Singapore is a good place to live but still this is not my home. I wanted to
go back and i was unable to. That was when i told to myself that none of
things that happened in my life is entirely shaped by me. And i am not going
to whine anymore. I decided to take up technical reading more seriously and
got the national library membership. Singapore's NLB has a very limited
collection of technical books and that motivated me even more. I resolved that
i am going to finish off the entire IT section (except of course, those scary
looking System 3 manuals)

I read the truly random books and some [recommended ones][1]. Among the many
interesting books which gives that wonderful satisfaction at the last page, I
had to meekly admit that once in a while, i had to return some books half way
to pick another. One amongst the beautiful ones is ["Dreaming in code"][2] -
the journey of [Chandler][3] and its team. It gave a lot of insight into how
everybody starts small and everybody makes mistakes. But then, they all had a
bigger dream and they were focussed. The grit and the patience of [Mitch
Kapor][4] all through the project was beautiful. I am yet to see a truly
impressive tool like Chandler. Even today, I composed a mail (outlook) to our
corporate technical group appreciating their efforts on a recent technical
event. I then mentioned in the mail that we should be meeting tomorrow to see
what we can do next. Only then i realised i actually needed a meeting request.
So, i copied all the contents, composed a new meeting request and pasted the
contents and then started typing in the whole "To" list. In Chandler, it is
just ONE FREAKING CLICK !!! Your mail is converted to a meeting request.

The ["better programmer"][1] link and "Dreaming in code" made me want to learn
Python. Meanwhile, Rajesh started doing projects of his own. He fell in love
with Rails and became a fan of Ruby. The speed of Python and the quantity of
code needed to be written to do something useful was amazing. List
comprehensions and slicing had me dumbstuck. After reading "[Learning in
Python][5]", I wanted to write something USEFUL. Rajesh got through Tech
Mahindra as a contractor and moved to Pune. He didnt have internet access in
office. And that was the birth of Fetch2Me - the name fondly given by my
wonderfully best friend "Mirth Machine" Gaurav. Fetch2Me was a simple screen
scraping application and it had a simple raison d'etre. Use your corporate id
and send the url as the subject to fetch2me AT gmail DOT com and it will fetch
the page. If the subject could not be resolved to a valid url, respond with
the google results of the search string. But then, all my friends wanted more
out of the project. I am not saying that this is all I had in mind from the
start but I am considering this as a start - to be useful. Stay tuned.

   [1]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/82639/how-to-become-a-better-
programmer

   [2]: http://www.amazon.com/Dreaming-Code-Programmers-Transcendent-
Software/dp/1400082463

   [3]: http://chandlerproject.org/

   [4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mitch_Kapor

   [5]: http://www.amazon.com/Learning-Python-Second-Mark-Lutz/dp/0596002815

