---
author: Arun Manivannan
date: '2009-07-03 07:02:17'
layout: post
comments: true
slug: the-yin-and-yang
status: publish
title: The Yin and Yang
wordpress_id: '326'
? ''
: - personal
  - personal
---

Last night, I was watching the movie "Street Fighter - The Legend of Chun Li".
Though the storyline is about a girl who takes revenge for the abduction and
murder of her father, there was subtle yet strong message in the movie. Master
Gen, who trains Chun Li in Wushu, was actually a former accomplice of the
villain. He mends his ways and tries to make good of his former evil actions.
At one point in the movie during the training, he drew the "Yin and Yang" with
his legs on sand. How meaningful and thoughful.

I slept over with this thought. After reading the rest of this text, I am sure
many would say to themselves "Hey, I've been through this" or "I have done
this" or even "I was this". Over a period of time we have all seen the good
and the bad side of life and people. Our fight has always been more to prove
that other people were wrong than to satisfy our measly ego. In simple words,
we are fighting for those people who show their summer side after proving them
wrong.

Toggling between the mean Booking supervisor in one station and sweetest and
caring Booking Supervisor in another station in Railways, between the
exploiting Senior booking clerk who forced me to work his shifts and another
Senior Clerk who helped me buy the first branded shirt for my first birthday
alone and between the supervisor who made me have lunch everyday at 4 and the
supervisor who bothered to bring me lunch everytime he returned from his home
in Trichy, between the molesting whores and Khalasis when I slept on the
platform and seniors who offered to share their homes for me to stay, between
the Police Senior Reporter who bailed me out of the greatest personal problem
in my life and the chief reporter who purposefully prevented me from attending
classes at 7 in business school saying "I wouldn’t allow you to use this
office as your launchpad", between the Inspector who treated me like $hit just
because I was 20 and the DSP who treated me like his son bringing me tea on
late nights, between the considerate SP who cared to ask why I refused to take
a work and a chief reporter who got me transferred to Sivagangai for the same
reason, between the girlfriend who ditched me for my own friend and the girl
who attempted suicide for me (I am lucky to have married her) … the list goes
on an on… and things arent any better today.

Yesterday, I saw an Indian who shivered and offered his seat for a man who
carried a "few days old" infant. The man was standing with the kid for at
least 10 seconds in the middle of the train and nobody else bothered.
Previously, I used to have the general thought that everybody gets when they
travel across seas.. "why am I not good looking?" or "why don’t I belong to
that race?". Those thoughts were long gone and yesterday I felt really proud
that I am an Indian. If it were India, the same scene would have been funny.
The whole train/bus would have stood. Of course, I don’t deny the existence of
those "confused Desis".

The downside of the past and the way "Yin and Yang" is balanced is painful but
I have something to carry for the rest of my life. Somebody quoted, "If a book
is able to give you one single point to ponder, then it has served its
purpose". Taking the nature of my job into consideration, I am done reading
more than half of the book and have a lot of things to think over. A month
ago, I was reading the book "The Last Lecture" by Randy Pausch, a Professor
from Carnegie Mellon, diagnosed as having terminal Pancreatic cancer, having
three children - two of them infants. He wrote some valuable notes for his
children. The read was emotional. The downside is that he was dying and is
trying hard to instill memories of him on his children. The upside - he knows
when he is going to die.

